#summary How to test Minify on your web server
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Unit Tests and Examples =

== Setup ==

0. If you haven't already, [http://code.google.com/p/minify/downloads/list download] the latest version of Minify and extract the files to a new "minify" directory, ideally outside of the webroot.

1. Copy the "web" directory somewhere inside your webroot and rename it "minify-web".

*Note*: At the end we will delete this copy.

2. Edit line 8 of "minify-web/config.php" so it contains the path to minify/lib (wherever you put it).

3. Edit line 16 so $minifyCachePath is set to a server-writable directory.

== Unit Tests ==

To run all unit tests, open your browser to "http://yourhost/path/to/minify-web/test/test-all.php".

You should see a list of "PASS"es. You can run the individual test PHP files in /test/ to see expected vs. actual output.

== Examples ==

To really see the effect of Minify, use [http://developer.yahoo.com/yslow/ YSlow] and check the "Components" tab. Clicking the magnifying glass next to each URL will show the headers Minify sends.

Browse to "http://yourhost/path/to/minify-web/examples/1/".

Both lines under "Minify tests" should read "PASS". This may take a few seconds the first time as Minify has to compress jQuery! Reloading the page via the "Reload page" link should be near instantaneous as the external js/css files will have be cached by the browser.

Example 2 additionally serves the XHTML page via Minify.

Example 3 uses conditional GETs rather than sending far-off Expires headers for the js/css files.

== Clean up ==

*Delete the "minify-web" directory when you're done.* It is not necessary for Minify's functionality.