#summary Your friendly guide to installing and using Minify.
#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured

= Installing Minify for the first time =

[http://code.google.com/p/minify/downloads/list Download] the latest Minify and unzip the files to a new "minify" directory.

Copy the "min" folder directly into your DOCUMENT_ROOT.

Done!

(Optional) See TestingMinify if you'd like to run unit tests.

== Upgrading Minify from 2.1.x ==

See the [http://code.google.com/p/minify/source/browse/tags/release_2.1.2/UPGRADING.txt Upgrade Guide]

= Usage =

Browse to http://example.com/min/

The Minify URI Builder will help you create URIs you can use to minify existing files on your site. You can see screenshots and get a feel for this process from this [http://mrclay.org/index.php/2008/09/19/minify-21-on-mrclayorg/ walkthrough on mrclay.org]

= Configuration =

Most configuration options are located in [http://code.google.com/p/minify/source/browse/trunk/min/config.php min/config.php]. To set up groups of files to minify, this can specified in [http://code.google.com/p/minify/source/browse/trunk/min/groupsConfig.php min/groupsConfig.php] (The builder application will help with this).

= Customized Sources / Options for Specific Files =

In [http://code.google.com/p/minify/source/browse/trunk/min/groupsConfig.php groupsConfig.php], you may use a [http://code.google.com/p/minify/source/browse/trunk/min/lib/Minify/Source.php Minify_Source] object in place of a file path. This will allow you to set the exact function used to process the source, specify an option to be sent to the processing function, or even create a source that's not based on a static file. Here are a few examples:

== Custom functions for files ==

{{{
// in groupsConfig.php:

function myMinifier($a) {return trim($a);}

return array(
    'js' => array(
        new Minify_Source(array(
            'filepath' => '//js/file1.js',
            'minifier' => ''  // don't minify this
        )),
        new Minify_Source(array(
            'filepath' => '//js/file2.js',
            'minifier' => 'myMinifier' // run myMinifier() on content
        )),
        '//js/site.js' // default JSMin minification
    )
);
}}}
= Previous Releases =

The following info applies only to the Minify 2.0 releases. Most users will not need to do any of this as of version 2.1.

== Using the Groups controller ==

We're going to build a small PHP file that calls `Minify::serve()`, turning it into an HTTP server for our Javascript and CSS.

1. Place the following code in a file "min.php" in your root web directory.

{{{
<?php

// Prepends include_path. You could alternately do this via .htaccess or php.ini
set_include_path( 
    '/full/path/to/minify/lib'
    . PATH_SEPARATOR . get_include_path()
);

require 'Minify.php';
Minify::setCache(); // in 2.0 was "useServerCache"
Minify::serve('Groups', array(
    'groups' => array()
));
}}}

2. Open a non-IE/win web browser to http://example.com/min.php/ (IE/win will not display Javascript files directly.)

You should see "HTTP/1.0 400 Bad Request". Minify is working, let's give it something to serve.

*Terminology:* From here on I'll use "minify URI" to mean a URI that points to a Minify server, like "min.php/" in our example.

3. Note the file paths of a few Javascript files you'd like to serve together. If they're in the same webroot as your minifying script, we can substitue "//" for the DOCUMENT_ROOT.

E.g.: `'//js/jQuery.js'` is a shortcut for `"{$_SERVER['DOCUMENT_ROOT']}/js/jQuery.js"`.

*Note:* Use file paths, not HTTP URIs. `/file.js` would result in PHP looking for file.js in the root directory of a Unix-ish filesystem. 

To specify a file on a different virtual host, don't use `http://example.com/file.js`, instead give its path from root: `/home/user/example.com/file.js`.

4. Add them to the 'groups' array inside the `Minify::serve()` call, like this:

{{{
Minify::serve('Groups', array(
    'groups' => array(
        'js1' => array('//js/yourFile1.js', '//js/yourFile2.js')
    )
));
}}}

5. Browse to http://example.com/min.php/js1

After a brief delay (on the first request PHP has to compress the files), you'll receive a single minified Javascript file containing the code of "yourFile1.js" and "yourFile2.js". The file will also be sent with deflate or gzip encoding, depending on your browser.

6. Now you can use "/min.php/js1" as the src attribute for (X)HTML SCRIPT elements.

== Serving more combinations of files, including CSS ==

You can add more elements to the "groups" array to serve more files. E.g.:

{{{
Minify::serve('Groups', array(
    'groups' => array(
        'js1' => array('//js/yourFile1.js', '//js/yourFile2.js')
        ,'js2' => array('//js/yourFile1.js', '//js/yourFile3.js')
        ,'jQuery' => array('//js/jquery-1.2.6.js')
        ,'css' => array('//css/layout.css', '//css/fonts.css')
    )
));
}}}

Now you can also use these URLs:

  * http://example.com/min.php/js2
  * http://example.com/min.php/jQuery (serve jQuery by itself)
  * http://example.com/min.php/css (serve CSS)

== Sending far future Expires headers ==

By default Minify enables [http://fishbowl.pastiche.org/2002/10/21/http_conditional_get_for_rss_hackers conditional GETs] for client-side caching, but in this model the browser has to continuously check back with the server to revalidate its cache. A better method is to send [http://developer.yahoo.com/performance/rules.html#expires far future Expires headers] and change the URL when the file changes. As long as you generate your HTML with PHP, Minify makes it easy to do this.

1. Move the 'groups' configuration array into a separate file "_groupsConfig.php":

{{{
<?php
// configures both Minify::serve() and Minify_Build
return array(
    'js1' => array('//js/yourFile1.js', '//js/yourFile2.js')
    ,'js2' => array('//js/yourFile1.js', '//js/yourFile3.js')
    ,'jQuery' => array('//js/jquery-1.2.6.js')
    ,'css' => array('//css/layout.css', '//css/fonts.css')
);
}}}

2. Adjust "min.php" to use this file:

{{{
Minify::serve('Groups', array(
    'groups' => (require '_groupsConfig.php')
));
}}}

3. In your HTML-generating script, create `Minify_Build` objects for each minify URI you're going to use, and, to each, apply the `uri()` method:

{{{
require 'Minify/Build.php';
$_gc = (require "_groupsConfig.php");
$js1Build = new Minify_Build($_gc['js1']);
$cssBuild = new Minify_Build($_gc['css']);

echo "<link rel='stylesheet' type='text/css' href='" . $cssBuild->uri('/min.php/css') . "' />";
/* ... */
echo "<script type='text/javascript' src='" . $js1Build->uri('/min.php/js1') . "'></script>";
}}}

5. Open the (X)HTML page in your browser. The Javascript and CSS should "work".

6. View source. The minify URIs should look like: "/min.php/js1?##########" (a unix timestamp)

7. Now that our URI's are synched with source file changes, we can safely send Expires headers. In "min.php":

{{{
Minify::serve('Groups', array(
    'groups' => (require '_groupsConfig.php')
    ,'maxAge' => 31536000 // 1 yr
    // in 2.0 was 'setExpires' => $_SERVER['REQUEST_TIME'] + 31536000
));
}}}

Now "min.php" will serve files with Expires headers, causing the browser to always retrieve them from cache (until the expiration date). 

When you make a change to any of your source Javascript/CSS files, your HTML file will have a different querystring appended to the minify URIs, causing the browser to download it as a new URL, and Minify will automatically rebuild its cache files on the server.

== Fixing URIs in CSS files (not required as of 2.1) ==

If you serve CSS with Minify you may notice your relative URIs in your CSS no longer point to the right places. To fix this, `serve()` can be pass an option to the CSS minifier that will prepend a string to all relative URIs. E.g.:

{{{
$serveOptions = array(
    'groups' => (require '_groupsConfig.php')
    ,'maxAge' => 31536000 // 1 yr
    // in 2.0 was 'setExpires' => $_SERVER['REQUEST_TIME'] + 31536000
);
// pass the 'prependRelativePath' to the CSS minifier:
$serveOptions['minifierOptions'][Minify::TYPE_CSS]['prependRelativePath'] = '/css/';
Minify::serve('Groups', $serveOptions);
}}}

*Note:* Before 2.0.2b replace `['minifierOptions']` with `['perType']`.

*Note:* In version 2.1, this section will be unneeded as relative URIs are automatically fixed for you.

=== Notes ===

  * You can name "min.php" anything you like (as long as it's executed as PHP) and place it anywhere in webroot. In the examples it's often "m.php".
  * You can use MultiViews or mod_rewrite to allow minify URIs like "/min/js" if you prefer. The "Groups" controller just expects a PATH_INFO server variable like "/js".
  * You can use multiple "min.php" files for serving with different options. E.g. If you want to use conditional GET on some requests, just make a copy of "min.php" without the 'setExpires' option and rename it something like "cgmin.php".
  * More [http://code.google.com/p/minify/source/browse/trunk/min/lib/Minify.php#76 serve options] are documented in the source.